{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red45\green68\blue134;
\red1\green32\blue135;\red234\green234\blue234;\red193\green193\blue193;\red43\green139\blue39;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa300

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 Introduction to OOP\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300

\b0\fs24 \cf2 Object Oriented programming is a subset of all programming languages. Objects are created from Classes. Classes define what an Object should know and do.\
Objects are instances of Classes. For example: \'93String\'94 is a class.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/lang/String.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/lang/String.html}}\
The class defines what Strings know and do. What they know are called variables, which can be \'93primitive\'94 or \'93Object\'94 variables. What they do are called methods, which can be \'93instance\'94 or \'93static\'94.\
Any one String object is an instance of the class String. In the code below, s1 and s2 are both of the class type String, but they are different String objects.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trcbpat3 \tamart100 \tamarb200 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw40\brdrcf7 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw40\brdrcf7 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw40\brdrcf7 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw40\brdrcf7 
\clvertalt \clcbpat6 \clwWidth12460\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf7 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf7 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf7 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf7 \clpadt60 \clpadl200 \clpadb60 \clpadr200 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320

\f1 \cf5 \cb1 String\cf0  s1 \cf8 =\cf0  \cf9 "s1 is a String Object"\cf8 ;\cf0 \
\cf5 String\cf0  s2 \cf8 =\cf0  \cf9 "s2 is a different String Object"\cf8 ;\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300

\f0 \cf2 \cb3 In this class, we will be studying object oriented programming primarily with the Java programming language, but we will also look at some other languages to compare and contrast.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/intro/definition.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/intro/definition.html}}\
Java is statically typed: The types of variables (instance and Objects) are checked when you compile to make sure that they match. This helps you write reliable code. The code won\'92t even run if you are using the wrong variables.\uc0\u8232 Counter examples: PHP, Python, JavaScript\
Java is strongly typed: Conversions between variable types must be done manually before compiling. This, along with static variable types, guarantees that you are not sending the wrong kind of data to other methods.\
These language features make the language harder to compile and sometimes takes longer to write, but makes your code more secure, stable, and efficient in the end.\
Some programming language comparisons:\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://pic.fsu.edu/courses/2012/fall/cop2258/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/speed.zip"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 speed.zip}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa300

\b\fs40 \cf2 Why Java?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300

\b0\fs24 \cf2 Java runs on any platform with the Java Virtual Machine (which is almost every computer) without the need to change any code. If you learn Java well, learning other OOP languages will be easy.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa300
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.google.com/site/pydatalog/pypl/PyPL-PopularitY-of-Programming-Language"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 https://sites.google.com/site/pydatalog/pypl/PyPL-PopularitY-of-Programming-Language}}\
Java has had a strong influence on many of the other OO languages today, and has less language constructs than many of them, making it simpler to learn since there is less potential syntax.\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_C_Sharp_and_Java"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_C_Sharp_and_Java}}\
Java is used in aerospace:\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://java.sys-con.com/node/39220"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://java.sys-con.com/node/39220}}\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Government-IT/NASAs-Curiosity-How-Java-Other-Tech-Powered-the-Latest-Mars-Mission-649767/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Government-IT/NASAs-Curiosity-How-Java-Other-Tech-Powered-the-Latest-Mars-Mission-649767/}}\
The Java language is used as the primary language for Android, which has 59% of the mobile market. Java is also the primary language for development on BlackBerry. Objective-C is primarily used on iOS, but there is a growing interest in getting Java on iOS.\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.prweb.com/releases/2012/5/prweb9514037.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Android Marketshare}}\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/jw-07-2012/120713-javaone-lineup-announcement.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Java on iOS}}\
The JVM is used to get new languages on other platforms and to have them run quickly. Java is the platform many other development frameworks are built upon: MATLAB, Scala, Clojure, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://processing.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Processing}}\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_JVM_languages"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_JVM_languages}}\
\'93We\'92ve waited 10 years to see Java turn into the actually very useful and extremely powerful technology that it is today. Without a doubt, Java has the largest ecosystem of shared libraries in any programming ecosystem. Java has seen ubiquitous corporate adoption. Java is taught at most colleges and universities, and while you might try to make the point that \'93Python is being favored over Java\'94 in some schools now, this is really not because of its technical capability, but more about teaching a more general set of programming knowledge that may or may not actually be useful in a business environment. Functional programming, variable interpolation, and the lack of a separate compile step make Python an appealing educational tool, certainly when combined with a shell language interpreter. This does not change what we use in the enterprise, in our daily jobs.\'94\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ocpsoft.org/opensource/javascript-is-the-new-perl/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://ocpsoft.org/opensource/javascript-is-the-new-perl/}}\
Java has excellent API documentation:\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/}}\
Java has tons of amazing libraries:\uc0\u8232 http://lwjgl.org/ http://potatoland.org/code/gl/\
http://simpleweb.sourceforge.net/\
http://slick.cokeandcode.com/\
http://commons.apache.org/\
http://www.jgoodies.com/\
http://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa300

\b\fs40 \cf2 Getting Started\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\sa100
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}Download and install the Java SDK (software development kit)\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk7-downloads-1880260.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk7-downloads-1880260.html}} (OSX users, if you cannot install this, you may already have the Java SDK installed, try to go ahead and install Eclipse Classic. If that does not work, talk with me.)\
{\listtext	2.	}Download and install Eclipse Classic\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/}}\
{\listtext	3.	}Run Eclipse Classic (eclipse.exe)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\sa100
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 {\listtext	4.	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://pic.fsu.edu/courses/2012/spring/cop2258/tutorials/HelloEclipse.html"}}{\fldrslt Write your first Java program.}}\cf2 \
}